Holberton School
My planning
My projects
My concepts
My batchmates
QA reviews I can make
My Captain's Logs
My Officers
My Speakers of the day
My Servers
My profile
You just released the optional tasks of this project. Have fun!
0x0D. Webstack monitoring
 Sysadmin & Devops ― Web stack

 by Sylvain Kalache

 Ongoing project - started 03-02-2017, must end by 03-03-2017 (in 43 minutes) - you're 0% done.

 QA review fully automated.

For this project, students are expected to look at these concepts:
Monitoring
Server
Readme

What is server monitoring
What is application monitoring
Sumologic API Acess Keys
Nginx logging
"You cannot fix or improve what you cannot measure" is a famous saying in the Tech industry. In the age of the data-ism, monitoring how our Software systems are doing is an important thing. In this project, we will implement one of many tools to measure what is going on our servers.

Web stack monitoring can be broken down into 2 categories:

Application monitoring: getting data about your running software and making sure it is behaving as expected
Server monitoring: getting data about your virtual or physical server and making sure they are not overloaded (could be CPU, memory, disk or network overload)
Monitor all the things!!!

What you should learn from this project

At the end of this project you are expected to be able to explain, without the help of Google:

Why do we need monitoring
What are the 2 types of monitoring
What is in a web server (such as Nginx) access logs
What is in a web server error logs
Requirements

Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs
All your files will be interpreted on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
All your files should end with a new line
A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project, is mandatory
All your Bash script files must be executable
Your Bash script must pass Shellcheck (version 0.3.3-1~ubuntu14.04.1 via apt-get) without any error
The first line of all your Bash scripts should be exactly #!/usr/bin/env bash
The second line of all your Bash scripts should be a comment explaining what is the script doing
Tasks
  Done?  
Help!
0. Monitor your Nginx traffic mandatory

Let's monitor our Nginx server traffic (access log and error log), by installing Sumlogic on web-01 (feel free to do it on other servers a well). Create an account and follow the setup wizard flow.

Requirements:

The account must be a SUMO LOGIC FREE
The account must be configured for NORTH AMERICA
You must use your ID@holbertonschool.com email address
You must select Nginx as Data Type to import
Create a Sumo Logic access key, share it in your answer file:
First line: Access ID
Second line: Access Key
After you are done, you should see a "Nginx - Overview" tab in your Dashboard menu

Nginx overview dashboard

Repo:

GitHub repository: holbertonschool-sysadmin_devops
Directory: 0x0D-webstack_monitoring
File: 0-monitor_your_nginx_traffic
Check your code?
  Done?  
Help!
1. Subscribe to Github Student Developer Pack mandatory

Moving forward we will use more and more SaaS who often have a freemium model and for some of them, even have special offer for students, let's take advantage of this!

Using your holbertonschool.com, redeem your developer pack.

Please refrain yourself from using cash limited providers such as AWS or DigitalOcean as they will be used in later projects.

developer pack

Repo:

GitHub repository: holbertonschool-sysadmin_devops
Directory: 0x0D-webstack_monitoring
  Done?  
Help!
2. Monitor your server #advanced

Your Nginx is running on a server and its health will impact how well Nginx and other server running on it perform. A server that is overloaded with tasks that are too CPU, memory, disk or network intensive will end up not performing as expected, might just freeze and crash.

Configure Sumo Logic to monitor your servers memory, CPU, network and disk. Once you are done you should be able to explore your machine performances in the metric tab:

Sumo Logic metric tab

Repo:

GitHub repository: holbertonschool-sysadmin_devops
Directory: 0x0D-webstack_monitoring
